---
layout: default
category1: guides
---
<h2>Grand Theft Auto Online Cluckin Bell Farm Raid guide </h2>
The Cluckin Bell Farm Raid in GTAO is one of the best ways (IMO) to make money early-game.
<h3>Step 1</h3>
(Create and) bookmark a job right outside of the Vespucci Police Station. This will allow you to [job warp](/guides/gtav/jobwarp) after each mission, instead of having to drive from the points you spawn after each mission back to the marker. MAKE SURE TO WAIT UNTIL VINCENT CALLS YOU AS YOU CANNOT ENTER THE NEXT MISSION BEFORE THEN! Most of the raid will be self explanatory.
<h3>Step 2</h3>
During the mission Breaking & Entering, you can find the laptop easier by firing a weapon at the Pier as when the target is spooked he will appear as an enemy on the radar. Since he always spawns near the laptop you can go to this red dot and search a much smaller area for the laptop. For the Terrorbyte, although its marker is moved around a little it will always spawn in the same lot that has barbed wire fences, and a raised area with a roof and a propane tank. Lastly, for the train, once you've collected the key from a cartel member by walking over it, you can fail & restart from a checkpoint to remove the cartel members as they do not spawn at the checkpoint.
<h3>Step 3</h3>
For the next two missions, you will be allowed to choose between 3 groups for your set of weapons, armor & getaway car. For the weapons and armor, select group A as the extra firepower is not needed for the approach we will use in this guide (stealthy), and the time we spend setting up the stealthy approach will be cancelled out by the time saved not driving to group B or C. For the car, if you have a fast cear (over 120mph) you can select group A since you can call your personal car once you've taken the getaway car out of the garage. Otherwise, choose group B as they can sometimes have the Coil Voltic, a super EV that can hit 120mph in a matter of seconds. The other cars that can spawn at group B are still good, however.<br>Do not take more than 1 car, the payout is not worth it.
<h3>Step 4</h3>
The penultimate mission involves hacking 2 vans, going to a depot, getting a keycard from there, and disabling the trucks there. Do not worry about never being caught as if you are caught it simply starts a timer and killing all the cartel members in the building before the timer runs out will maintain your stealthy approach for the raid. Do not drill anymore lockers after getting the keycard as the payout is not worth it. Walk up to the trucks and interact with them to 'sabotage' them. Do NOT destroy them otherwise you will lose your stealthy approach. Make sure to go into the security office and interact with the CCTV computer otherwise you will lose your stealthy approach.
<h3>Step 5</h3>
For the final mission, do not worry too much about maintaining stealth through the whole factory, as the resistance is still much less than if you started the mission with the cartel on high alert. If you took Group A's weapons, your combat pistol will be suppressed. Feel free to stealth takedown targets that have their backs to you. When walking in stealth mode be sure to first person stealth jog as it is the fastest stealth movement option. After stealing the cocaine from the first storage area, if you're still stealthy, clear the entire building, and on your way back to the second cocaine storage area, a key should appear on the radar. Take it. Once you take the getaway car out of the garage, you can call your personal vehicle and drive it back to the lockup if you're so inclined.